---
title: "(Upcoming) Systematic measurement and modeling of community noise at high spatiotemporal
resolution in Portland, Oregon"
collection: talks
type: "Oral presentation"
permalink: /talks/2014-02-01-talk-2
venue: "International Society of Exposure Science Annual Meeting"
date: 2024-10-23
location: "Montreal, Canada"
---
Abstract: Noise pollution is thought to be an environmental justice issue that can impact population health, yet noise levels are rarely quantified. We collaborated with the Multnomah County Health Department to systematically measure community noise levels in Portland, Oregon. Using a geographic information system and geospatial environmental data, we identified sites by sampling points from a population- and zoning-weighted demand surface. We then developed a protocol for the deployment of Class 1 sound level meters mounted on utility or light poles nearest our sampled points. The sound level meters continuously collected noise levels, and field personnel took photographs, audio samples, and videos. Day-night average sound level (DNL) and intermittency metrics will be calculated, mapped, and contrasted, city-wide. From August 10 to October 12, 2023, 227 locations were sampled. Site DNLs ranged from 49.6 to 85.6 decibels (dB). Seventy-eight of 94 Portland neighborhoods were sampled, capturing diverse built environments and sociodemographic characteristics. Continuous monitoring for at least six days showed daytime noise levels averaged 5.73 dB higher than nighttime levels. The systematic community noise measurement protocol and extensive database that we have developed will provide information and tools for researchers and communities to investigate environmental justice concerns and their associated health impacts.
